# Optimizing Product Prices for Maximum Profits

**Problem Statement**: The problem that this project aims to solve is finding the optimal price point for products in order to maximize profits. By analyzing sales data, the project can identify the relationship between price and sales and recommend a price that will result in the highest profits. This is particularly important in a competitive market where small changes in price can have a significant impact on sales and profits. By finding the optimal price point, businesses can increase their revenue and improve their financial performance.

This project aims to optimize the price of products by analyzing sales data and finding the optimal price point for maximum profits. The project is built with the following features:

- **Date**: The date on which the sale occurred.
- **ID**: A unique identifier for the sale.
- **SKU ID**: A unique identifier for the product.
- **Price**: The price column are given in relative units. i.e Price_in_dollars/cost_in_dollars.
- **SKU Name**: The name of the product.
- **Gender**: The gender for which the product is intended.
- **Category**: The category to which the product belongs (e.g. jeans).
- **Brand**: The brand of the product.
- **Collection**: The collection to which the product belongs.
- **Price Tier**: The price range in which the product falls (e.g. middle).
- **Style**: The style of the product (e.g. sport).
- **Cost**: The cost of the product.
- **Sales**: The total sales of the product.

Using this data, the project can analyze the relationship between price and sales and recommend a price point for maximum profits.
3
## :thumbsup: The Solution

We can use the data to find the optimal price point for maximum profits. The project uses the following steps to find the optimal price point:

1. `make_dataset.py`: It has classes `Ingestor` which ingests the data and `LabelEncoder` which encodes the categorical features available in the data

2. `build_features.py`: It has classes `FeatureBuilder` which builds the features which are following:-

- `revenue`: The total revenue generated by the product.
- `profit`: The total profit generated by the product.
- `profit_margin`: The profit margin of the product.
- `sales_change`: The change in sales of the product.

3. `train_model.py`: It has classes `ModelTrainer` which trains the linear regression model.

4. `evaluate.py`: It has classes `ModelEvaluator` which evaluates the model using the following metrics:-

- `mean_absolute_error`: The mean absolute error of the model.
- `mean_squared_error`: The mean squared error of the model.
- `root_mean_squared_error`: The root mean squared error of the model.
- `r2_score`: The r2 score of the model.

5. `predict.py`: It has classes `ModelPredictor` which predicts the optimal price point for maximum profits.

6. `main.py`: It has commands `Model` which runs the entire project.

## Running the Project

To run the project, follow the steps below:

1. Clone the repository and navigate to the downloaded folder.

   ```
       git clone
       cd product-price-optimization
   ```

2. Create and activate a new environment.

   ```
       conda create -n product-price-optimization python=3.7
       conda activate product-price-optimization
   ```

3. Install the required packages.

   ```
       pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

4. Run the project.

   ```
        python src/main.py buildmodel data.csv
   ```

## :file_folder: Project Structure

    ```
    ├── README.md          <- The top-level README for developers using this project.
    ├── data
    │   ├── processed      <- The final, canonical data sets for modeling.
    │   └── raw            <- The original, immutable data dump.
    │
    ├── models             <- Trained and serialized models, model predictions, or model summaries
    ├── src                <- Source code for use in this project.
    │   ├── __init__.py    <- Makes src a Python module
    │   ├── build_features.py
    │   ├── build_model.py
    │   ├── evaluate_model.py
    │   ├── make_dataset.py
    │   ├── predict.py
    │   └── train_model.py
    |   └── main.py
    │   └── utils.py
    │
    ├── requirements.txt   <- The requirements file for reproducing the analysis environment

    ```
